
## <b>Nx_MQTT_Client application description</b>

This application provides an example of Azure RTOS NetX/NetXDuo stack usage.
It shows how to exchange data between client and server using MQTT protocol in an encrypted mode supporting TLS v1.2.

The main entry function tx_application_define() is called by ThreadX during kernel start, at this stage, all NetX resources are created.

+ A <i>NX_PACKET_POOL</i>is allocated
+ A <i>NX_IP</i> instance using that pool is initialized
+ The <i>ARP</i>, <i>ICMP</i>, <i>UDP</i> and <i>TCP</i> protocols are enabled for the <i>NX_IP</i> instance
+ A <i>DHCP client is created.</i>

The application then creates 3 threads with the different priorities:

**AppMainThread** (priority 10, PreemtionThreashold 10) : created with the <i>TX_AUTO_START</i> flag to start automatically.

**AppMQTTClientThread** (priority 3, PreemtionThreashold 3) : created with the <i>TX_DONT_START</i> flag to be started later.

**AppSNTPThread** (priority 5, PreemtionThreashold 5) : created with the <i>TX_DONT_START</i> flag to be started later.

The **AppMainThread** starts and perform the following actions:

  + creates a dns_client with USER_DNS_ADDRESS (default value defined IP_ADDRESS(1, 1, 1, 1) on app_netxduo.h.
  + starts the DHCP client
  + waits for the IP address resolution
  + resumes the **AppSNTPThread**

The **AppSNTPThread**, once started:

  + it connects to an SNTP server to get the current time.
  + resumes the **AppMQTTClientThread**

The **AppMQTTClientThread**, once started:

  + creates an mqtt_client
  + connects mqtt_client to the online MQTT broker; connection with server will be secure and a **tls_setup_callback** will set TLS parameters.
  By default MQTT_PORT for encrypted mode is 8883.
          refer to note 4 below, to know how to setup an x509 certificate.
  + mqtt_client subscribes on a predefined topic TOPIC_NAME  "Temperature" with a Quality Of Service QOS0
  + depending on the number of message "NB_MESSAGE" defined by user, mqtt_client will publish a random number generated by RNG. If NB_MESSAGE = 0, it means that number of messages is infinitely.
  + mqtt_client will get messages from the MQTT broker and print them.

#### <b> Expected success behavior</b>

 + The board IP address is printed on the HyperTerminal
 + Connection's information are printed on the HyperTerminal (broker's name, mqtt port, topic and messages received)

 ```
MQTT client connected to broker < test.mosquitto.org > at PORT 8883 :
Message 1 received: TOPIC = Temperature, MESSAGE = 34
Message 2 received: TOPIC = Temperature, MESSAGE = 35
Message 3 received: TOPIC = Temperature, MESSAGE = 35
Message 4 received: TOPIC = Temperature, MESSAGE = 34
Message 5 received: TOPIC = Temperature, MESSAGE = 33
client disconnected from server
 ```
 + Blue led is toggling after successfully receiving all messages.
 
#### <b> Error behaviors</b>

+ The red LED is toggling to indicate any error that has occurred.

#### <b> Assumptions if any</b>

- The Application is using the DHCP to acquire IP address, thus a DHCP server should be reachable by the board in the LAN used to test the application.
- The application is configuring the Ethernet IP with a static predefined <i>MAC Address</i>, make sure to change it in case multiple boards are connected on the same LAN to avoid any potential network traffic issues.
- The application does not support Ethernet cable hot-plug, therefore the board should be connected to the LAN before running the application.
- The MAC Address is defined in the `main.c`

```
void MX_ETH_Init(void)
{

  /* USER CODE BEGIN ETH_Init 0 */

  /* USER CODE END ETH_Init 0 */

  /* USER CODE BEGIN ETH_Init 1 */

  /* USER CODE END ETH_Init 1 */
  heth.Instance = ETH;
  heth.Init.MACAddr[0] =   0x00;
  heth.Init.MACAddr[1] =   0x80;
  heth.Init.MACAddr[2] =   0xE1;
  heth.Init.MACAddr[3] =   0x00;
  heth.Init.MACAddr[4] =   0x00;
  heth.Init.MACAddr[5] =   0x00;
```
#### <b>Known limitations</b>

* Default NX_DNS_MAX_RETRIES value in "nx_user.h" may not work with some MQTT servers, they should be tuned for example:

    #define NX_DNS_MAX_RETRIES  10

* Since NetXDuo does not support proxy, mqtt_client should be connected directly to the server.

### <b>Notes</b>

#### <b>Prerequisites</b>
Before running the application :
- The DDR memory need to be initialized with DDR_Init example.
- The STM32MP135F-DK board should be connected to the LAN via the ethernet connector ETH1.

#### <b>ThreadX usage hints</b>

 - ThreadX uses the Systick as time base, thus it is mandatory that the HAL uses a separate time base through the TIM IPs.
 - ThreadX is configured with 100 ticks/sec by default, this should be taken into account when using delays or timeouts at application. It is always possible to reconfigure it in the "tx_user.h", the "TX_TIMER_TICKS_PER_SECOND" define,but this should be reflected in "tx_initialize_low_level.S" file too.
 - ThreadX is disabling all interrupts during kernel start-up to avoid any unexpected behavior, therefore all system related calls (HAL, BSP) should be done either at the beginning of the application or inside the thread entry functions.
 - ThreadX offers the "tx_application_define()" function, that is automatically called by the tx_kernel_enter() API.
   It is highly recommended to use it to create all applications ThreadX related resources (threads, semaphores, memory pools...)  but it should not in any way contain a system API call (HAL or BSP).

#### <b>NetX Duo usage hints</b>

- Depending on the application scenario, the total TX and RX descriptors may need to be increased by updating respectively  the "ETH_TX_DESC_CNT" and "ETH_RX_DESC_CNT" in the "stm32h7xx_hal_conf.h", to guarantee the application correct behaviour, but this will cost extra memory to allocate.

### <b>Keywords</b>

RTOS, Network, ThreadX, NetXDuo, MQTT, TLS, UART

### <b>Hardware and Software environment</b>

  - This application runs on STM32MP135xx devices
  - This application has been tested with STMicroelectronics STM32MP135F-DK boards
    and can be easily tailored to any other supported device and development board.

  - This application uses UART4 to display logs, the hyperterminal configuration is as follows:
      - BaudRate = 115200 baud
      - Word Length = 8 Bits
      - Stop Bit = 1
      - Parity = None
      - Flow control = None

###  <b>How to use it ?</b>

In order to make the program work, you must do the following :

 - Open your preferred toolchain
 - Edit the file app_netxduo.h : define the USER_DNS_ADDRESS (if necessary), the MQTT_BROKER_NAME and NB_MESSAGE.
 - Rebuild and run DDR_Init example to initialize the DDR memory
 - Rebuild all files and load your image into target memory
 - For STM32CubeIDE, in order to keep DDR initialized, please remove "monitor reset" line in "Debug Configurations->Startup>Initialization Commands"
 - Run the application  
